README.md, before:


# RL-Medical

Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) agents for anatomical landmark detection using PyTorch.
This is the code for the paper [Communicative Reinforcement Learning Agents for Landmark Detection in Brain Images](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08055).

## Introduction

Accurate detection of anatomical landmarks is an essential step in several medical imaging tasks. This repository implements a novel communicative multi-agent reinforcement learning (C-MARL) system to automatically detect landmarks in 3D medical images. C-MARL enables the agents to learn explicit communication channels, as well as implicit communication signals by sharing certain weights of the architecture among all the agents.

In addition to C-MARL, the code also supports single agents and multi-agents with no communication channel (named Network3d).
This code is originally a fork from [Amir Alansary's repository](https://github.com/amiralansary/rl-medical).

10 brain MRI scans each with 20 landmarks annotated from the ADNI dataset are included in the `data` folder for convenience.

## Results
Here are a few examples of the learned agents on unseen data:

* An  example  of  our  proposed  C-MARL  system  consisting  of  5  agents.  These agents are looking for 5 different landmarks in a brain MRI scan. Each agent’s ROI is represented by a yellow box and centered around a blue point, while the red point is the target landmark. ROI is sampled with 3mm spacing at the beginning of every episode. The length of the circumference of red disks denotes the distance between the current and target landmarks in z-axis.
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/brain_5_agents.gif">
</p>

* Similarly, 5 C-MARL agents in fetal ultrasounds scans.
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/fetal_5_agents.gif">
</p>

* Detecting the apex point in short-axis cardiac MRI [(HQ video)](videos/cardiac_apex.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/cardiac_apex.gif" width="255">
</p>

* Detecting the anterior commissure (AC) point in adult brain MRI [(HQ video)](videos/brain_ac.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/brain_ac.gif" width="255">
</p>

* Detecting the cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) point in fetal head ultrasound [(HQ video)](videos/fetal_csp.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/fetal_csp.gif" width="255">
</p>


### Train

Example to train 5 C-MARL agents
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task train --files data/filenames/image_files.txt data/filenames/landmark_files.txt --model_name CommNet --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 --multiscale --viz 0 --train_freq 50 --write
```

With the `--write` flag, training will produce logs and a Tensorboard in the `--logDir` directory (`runs` by default).

Note: the landmarks flag specifies the number of agents and their target landmarks. For example, `--landmarks 0 1 1` means there are 3 agents, one agent looks for landmark 0 while two agents look for the same landmark number 1. 

### Evaluate

* 8 C-MARL agents 
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet8agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 3 4 5 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 5 C-MARL agents 
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet5agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 3 C-MARL agents 
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet3agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 8 Network3d agents 
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/Network3d8agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 3 4 5 --model_name "Network3d"
```

* Single agent
```
cd src
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/SingleAgent.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 --model_name "Network3d"
```


## Usage
```
[-h] [--load LOAD] [--task {play,eval,train}]
              [--file_type {brain,cardiac,fetal}] [--files FILES [FILES ...]]
              [--val_files VAL_FILES [VAL_FILES ...]] [--saveGif]
              [--saveVideo] [--logDir LOGDIR]
              [--landmarks [LANDMARKS [LANDMARKS ...]]]
              [--model_name {CommNet,Network3d}] [--batch_size BATCH_SIZE]
              [--memory_size MEMORY_SIZE]
              [--init_memory_size INIT_MEMORY_SIZE]
              [--max_episodes MAX_EPISODES]
              [--steps_per_episode STEPS_PER_EPISODE]
              [--target_update_freq TARGET_UPDATE_FREQ]
              [--save_freq SAVE_FREQ] [--delta DELTA] [--viz VIZ]
              [--multiscale] [--write] [--train_freq TRAIN_FREQ]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --load LOAD           Path to the model to load (default: None)
  --task {play,eval,train}
                        task to perform, must load a pretrained model if task
                        is "play" or "eval" (default: train)
  --file_type {brain,cardiac,fetal}
                        Type of the training and validation files (default:
                        train)
  --files FILES [FILES ...]
                        Filepath to the text file that contains list of
                        images. Each line of this file is a full path to an
                        image scan. For (task == train or eval) there should
                        be two input files ['images', 'landmarks'] (default:
                        None)
  --val_files VAL_FILES [VAL_FILES ...]
                        Filepath to the text file that contains list of
                        validation images. Each line of this file is a full
                        path to an image scan. For (task == train or eval)
                        there should be two input files ['images',
                        'landmarks'] (default: None)
  --saveGif             Save gif image of the game (default: False)
  --saveVideo           Save video of the game (default: False)
  --logDir LOGDIR       Store logs in this directory during training (default:
                        runs)
  --landmarks [LANDMARKS [LANDMARKS ...]]
                        Landmarks to use in the images (default: [1])
  --model_name {CommNet,Network3d}
                        Models implemented are: Network3d, CommNet (default:
                        CommNet)
  --batch_size BATCH_SIZE
                        Size of each batch (default: 64)
  --memory_size MEMORY_SIZE
                        Number of transitions stored in exp replay buffer. If
                        too much is allocated training may abruptly stop.
                        (default: 100000.0)
  --init_memory_size INIT_MEMORY_SIZE
                        Number of transitions stored in exp replay before
                        training (default: 30000.0)
  --max_episodes MAX_EPISODES
                        "Number of episodes to train for" (default: 100000.0)
  --steps_per_episode STEPS_PER_EPISODE
                        Maximum steps per episode (default: 200)
  --target_update_freq TARGET_UPDATE_FREQ
                        Number of epochs between each target network update
                        (default: 10)
  --save_freq SAVE_FREQ
                        Saves network every save_freq steps (default: 1000)
  --delta DELTA         Amount to decreases epsilon each episode, for the
                        epsilon-greedy policy (default: 0.0001)
  --viz VIZ             Size of the window, None for no visualisation
                        (default: 0.01)
  --multiscale          Reduces size of voxel around the agent when it
                        oscillates (default: False)
  --write               Saves the training logs (default: False)
  --train_freq TRAIN_FREQ
                        Number of agent steps between each training step on
                        one mini-batch (default: 1)
```

## Development

Issues and pull requests are very welcomed.

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite this paper:

```
@article{leroy2020communicative,
  title={Communicative Reinforcement Learning Agents for Landmark Detection in Brain Images},
  author={Leroy, Guy and Rueckert, Daniel and Alansary, Amir},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.08055},
  year={2020}
}
```

## Resources

More information on this project:
- [Master's project presentation video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8Sy4_YbTFE)
- [Master's project report](https://gml16.github.io/projects/mastersthesis.pdf)

Commit message:

Removing depencies from Tensorpack and matplotlib, added environment.yml

README.md, after:


# RL-Medical

Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) agents for anatomical landmark detection using PyTorch.
This is the code for the paper [Communicative Reinforcement Learning Agents for Landmark Detection in Brain Images](https://arxiv.org/abs/2008.08055).

## Introduction

Accurate detection of anatomical landmarks is an essential step in several medical imaging tasks. This repository implements a novel communicative multi-agent reinforcement learning (C-MARL) system to automatically detect landmarks in 3D medical images. C-MARL enables the agents to learn explicit communication channels, as well as implicit communication signals by sharing certain weights of the architecture among all the agents.

In addition to C-MARL, the code also supports single agents and multi-agents with no communication channel (named Network3d).
This code is originally a fork from [Amir Alansary's repository](https://github.com/amiralansary/rl-medical).

10 brain MRI scans each with 20 landmarks annotated from the ADNI dataset are included in the `data` folder for convenience.

## Results
Here are a few examples of the learned agents on unseen data:

* An  example  of  our  proposed  C-MARL  system  consisting  of  5  agents.  These agents are looking for 5 different landmarks in a brain MRI scan. Each agent’s ROI is represented by a yellow box and centered around a blue point, while the red point is the target landmark. ROI is sampled with 3mm spacing at the beginning of every episode. The length of the circumference of red disks denotes the distance between the current and target landmarks in z-axis.
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/brain_5_agents.gif">
</p>

* Similarly, 5 C-MARL agents in fetal ultrasounds scans.
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/fetal_5_agents.gif">
</p>

* Detecting the apex point in short-axis cardiac MRI [(HQ video)](videos/cardiac_apex.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/cardiac_apex.gif" width="255">
</p>

* Detecting the anterior commissure (AC) point in adult brain MRI [(HQ video)](videos/brain_ac.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/brain_ac.gif" width="255">
</p>

* Detecting the cavum septum pellucidum (CSP) point in fetal head ultrasound [(HQ video)](videos/fetal_csp.mp4)
<p align="center">
<img src="./doc/fetal_csp.gif" width="255">
</p>

### Running the code

The main file is `src/DQN.py` and offers two modes of use, training and evaluation, that are described below.
For convenience, a Conda environment has been provided (note: on my machine the environment takes 3.7GB, mostly because of PyTorch and the CUDA toolkit). There's no need to use it if the code already runs for you.

```
conda env create -f environment.yml
```

All other commands are run from the `src` folder.

```
cd src
```

### Train

Example to train 5 C-MARL agents
```
python DQN.py --task train --files data/filenames/image_files.txt data/filenames/landmark_files.txt --model_name CommNet --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 --multiscale --viz 0 --train_freq 50 --write
```

With the `--write` flag, training will produce logs and a Tensorboard in the `--logDir` directory (`runs` by default).

Note: the landmarks flag specifies the number of agents and their target landmarks. For example, `--landmarks 0 1 1` means there are 3 agents, one agent looks for landmark 0 while two agents look for the same landmark number 1. 

### Evaluate

* 8 C-MARL agents 
```
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet8agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 3 4 5 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 5 C-MARL agents 
```
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet5agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 3 C-MARL agents 
```
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/CommNet3agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 --model_name "CommNet"
```

* 8 Network3d agents 
```
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/Network3d8agents.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 14 0 1 2 3 4 5 --model_name "Network3d"
```

* Single agent
```
python DQN.py --task eval --load 'data/models/BrainMRI/SingleAgent.pt' --files 'data/filenames/image_files.txt' 'data/filenames/landmark_files.txt' --file_type brain --landmarks 13 --model_name "Network3d"
```


## Usage
```
[-h] [--load LOAD] [--task {play,eval,train}]
              [--file_type {brain,cardiac,fetal}] [--files FILES [FILES ...]]
              [--val_files VAL_FILES [VAL_FILES ...]] [--saveGif]
              [--saveVideo] [--logDir LOGDIR]
              [--landmarks [LANDMARKS [LANDMARKS ...]]]
              [--model_name {CommNet,Network3d}] [--batch_size BATCH_SIZE]
              [--memory_size MEMORY_SIZE]
              [--init_memory_size INIT_MEMORY_SIZE]
              [--max_episodes MAX_EPISODES]
              [--steps_per_episode STEPS_PER_EPISODE]
              [--target_update_freq TARGET_UPDATE_FREQ]
              [--save_freq SAVE_FREQ] [--delta DELTA] [--viz VIZ]
              [--multiscale] [--write] [--train_freq TRAIN_FREQ]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --load LOAD           Path to the model to load (default: None)
  --task {play,eval,train}
                        task to perform, must load a pretrained model if task
                        is "play" or "eval" (default: train)
  --file_type {brain,cardiac,fetal}
                        Type of the training and validation files (default:
                        train)
  --files FILES [FILES ...]
                        Filepath to the text file that contains list of
                        images. Each line of this file is a full path to an
                        image scan. For (task == train or eval) there should
                        be two input files ['images', 'landmarks'] (default:
                        None)
  --val_files VAL_FILES [VAL_FILES ...]
                        Filepath to the text file that contains list of
                        validation images. Each line of this file is a full
                        path to an image scan. For (task == train or eval)
                        there should be two input files ['images',
                        'landmarks'] (default: None)
  --saveGif             Save gif image of the game (default: False)
  --saveVideo           Save video of the game (default: False)
  --logDir LOGDIR       Store logs in this directory during training (default:
                        runs)
  --landmarks [LANDMARKS [LANDMARKS ...]]
                        Landmarks to use in the images (default: [1])
  --model_name {CommNet,Network3d}
                        Models implemented are: Network3d, CommNet (default:
                        CommNet)
  --batch_size BATCH_SIZE
                        Size of each batch (default: 64)
  --memory_size MEMORY_SIZE
                        Number of transitions stored in exp replay buffer. If
                        too much is allocated training may abruptly stop.
                        (default: 100000.0)
  --init_memory_size INIT_MEMORY_SIZE
                        Number of transitions stored in exp replay before
                        training (default: 30000.0)
  --max_episodes MAX_EPISODES
                        "Number of episodes to train for" (default: 100000.0)
  --steps_per_episode STEPS_PER_EPISODE
                        Maximum steps per episode (default: 200)
  --target_update_freq TARGET_UPDATE_FREQ
                        Number of epochs between each target network update
                        (default: 10)
  --save_freq SAVE_FREQ
                        Saves network every save_freq steps (default: 1000)
  --delta DELTA         Amount to decreases epsilon each episode, for the
                        epsilon-greedy policy (default: 0.0001)
  --viz VIZ             Size of the window, None for no visualisation
                        (default: 0.01)
  --multiscale          Reduces size of voxel around the agent when it
                        oscillates (default: False)
  --write               Saves the training logs (default: False)
  --train_freq TRAIN_FREQ
                        Number of agent steps between each training step on
                        one mini-batch (default: 1)
```

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are very welcomed.

## Citation

If you use this code in your research, please cite this paper:

```
@article{leroy2020communicative,
  title={Communicative Reinforcement Learning Agents for Landmark Detection in Brain Images},
  author={Leroy, Guy and Rueckert, Daniel and Alansary, Amir},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2008.08055},
  year={2020}
}
```

## Resources

More information on this project:
- [Master's project presentation video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8Sy4_YbTFE)
- [Master's project report](https://gml16.github.io/projects/mastersthesis.pdf)
